### [Back to Introduction Overview](./)

# Intro to Async

##  How the internet works
1.  Servers In concept
2.  Brower Server Dance
##  Introduction to Async
###  Async-you
1. Once you've gotten to this point, make sure to talk to Josh for a spiel on async
1. Complete the async-you challenges. 
    * Make sure you have Node.js installed on your machine.
    * If you haven't installed the npm package 'async', run the following:

    * Enter the following to install program:
    ```
    npm install async-you -g
    ```
    to run:
    ```
    async-you
    ```
2. The program will tell you how to test and verify your solution.
2. Here is the async [documentation](https://caolan.github.io/async/v3/docs.html) if you need it.
3. Make another separate Github repository for your async-you solutions.
2. If you have any questions, be sure to ask those around you as well as Josh.

* Once you have completed the async-you exercises, come back to this page and follow the training instructions below.

###  Continue Learnyounode 
* Complete the learnyounode lessons 4-6, & 9
###  Test knowledge of the node pattern
* Follow the instructions in [Do You Know The Async Node-Pattern](https://github.com/byuitechops/do-you-know-the-async-node-pattern)
* Complete remaining learnyounode Lessons 7-8, 10-13
## Good Node Libraries
* We have a compiled [list of approved node libraries](../../Handbook/5.%20Approved%20Lists/Approved%20Libraries%20Node.md). Please review this list before going forward. You need to know the basics of these libraries, so that you do not code something that has already been written!

##  Testing for Quality Control
1.  Unit Tests
2.  End to End Testing
3.  Tap
## Project life-cycle
* Project Life Cycle just refers to how we receive, process, and propose code solutions on the Development Team. 
* Read about our project life cycle [here](../../Handbook/3.%20Project%20Life%20Cycle)

# Training Continuation
Congrats! You made it through the first training lesson. You're now ready for a project. Make sure you check in with Josh and get a project to work on. 

As you work on this project, go ahead and learn the Javascript lessons listed in the Core Training. Most, if not all the lessons will be helpful to you in your upcoming projects and knowledge.

[Previous Section](./3.%20codingBasics.md) | [Next Section](../2.%20Core)
