### [Back to Orientation Overview](./)

# Computer Setup

## Make Accounts in All following places

*   D2L
*   Canvas
*   Equella
*   Slack (potentially MS Teams and Google Chat, ask your peers about this)
*   Github (make sure to add a professional photo on your profile)
*   Send your username for Github to mckinneyj@byui.edu


## Set Up Your Computer

### Fix the Window's Command Line
*   Follow the instructions found <a href="https://github.com/byuicampuscd/cmd-settings" target="_blank">here</a> to setup some command line settings
*   add in the  windows ten stuff

### Install Applications
1. Node.js
    * In CMD, use this to make sure Node.js is installed on your machine: 
        ```
        node --version
        ```
    *   Make sure that the version number shown is the same as the LTS version found on the Node.js website <a href="https://nodejs.org/en/" target="_blank">here</a>
    * If it isn't, install the LTS version found on the site

2. Add NPM folder to your PATH
    *   Tutorial is <a href="https://docs.google.com/a/byui.edu/document/d/1g1SZvtLB56bxmMxzY-TIhVmaEgHKbnGrdxfiZpJ427c/edit?usp=sharing" target="_blank">here</a>

3. Git
    1. Make sure git is installed on your machine by running: 
        ```
        git --version
        ```
    2. If it isn't, install it by clicking <a href="https://git-scm.com/download/win" target="_blank">here</a>

    3. You will need to set up git with your github account on on every computer that you use. 
        * The required commands (insert your own name and github email): 
       
        ```
        git config --global user.name "John Doe"
        git config --global user.email johndoe@example.com
        ```
        For more info see <a href="https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-First-Time-Git-Setup" target="_blank">Getting Started First Time Git-Setup</a>. 

        This next command changes the default text editor to notepad++. Without this `git commit` without the `-m` opens a vi, a command line text editor that you probably don't want to use.
            
        ```
        git config --global core.editor "\"C:\Program Files\Notepad++\notepad++.exe\" -multiInst -nosession -notabbar"
        ```

        This next command removes the pager for all git commands on Windows. Without this things like `git diff` and `git log` on windows freezes sometimes.
        
        ```
        git config --global --add core.pager cat
        ```

4. VS Code
    * First check if VS Code is already installed on your machine. You can do this by trying one of the following commands:
        ```
        code .
        ```
        OR
        ```
        code-insiders .
        ```
        If the program does not boot, VS Code was not successfully installed.

    * To install VS Code, click <a href="https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=534107" target="_blank">here</a>.
    * Open up VS Code and add the following extensions: 
        * ESLint
            * If you're having trouble setting up ESLint, ask someone about the linter file. 
        * Beautify
            * Inside of VS Code, click `File > Preferences > Settings`
            * In the top right corner of VS code there will be a button that looks like this: `{}`. Click on it.
            * Add this code to enable beautify on save:
            ```
            "editor.formatOnSave": true
            ```
        * Path Intellisense
        * Npm Intellisense
        * Intellisense for CSS class names
        * Bracket Pair Colorizer
        * open in browser
    * Look <a href="https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/codebasics" target="_blank">here</a> for some really good keyboard shortcuts
    * Look <a href="https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/javascript" target="_blank">here</a> to see some cool features VS Code has for Javascript
    * General VS Code Help : <a href="https://code.visualstudio.com/docs" target="_blank">Documentation and Helper Docs</a>

## Continue
Done setting up and installing everything? Move on to the next section. (Policy Intro)

[Previous Section](./) | [Next Section](./2.%20policyIntro.md)


